---
title: Ios - Beams - Pusher Docs
layout: beams.njk
eleventyNavigation: 
  parent: Handle incoming notifications
  key: Handle incoming notifications ios
  title: iOS
  order: 1
---
# Handle incoming notifications: iOS
 
Beams makes it possible trigger callback code in your application when a push notification arrives on a user's device. This can be used to respond to the arrival of the notification in your application. 
 
# While your app is running or backgrounded
 
When a notification arrives whilst your app is running (foreground or background) you will receive a callback in your `AppDelegate`: 
 
```swift
{iOSDidReceiveRemoteNotificationExample}
```
 
## Notification delivery for iOS 13 and above
 
Apple has changed the way that remote notifications are delivered when an app is running in the background (i.e. opened but minimised by the user) in iOS 13 and above. 
 
** If you take no further action, when your app is running in the background the  ` application:didReceiveRemoteNotification:fetchCompletionHandler: ` method will not be called until the user brings the app to the foreground by tapping on the notification. The method call will also be delayed after the app enters the foreground, depending on the type of the received notification. ** 
 
To ensure that the `AppDelegate` method is called immediately after a notification is displayed when your app is running in the background and (as was the case with iOS 12 and below), you must implement a  [ Notification Service Extension ](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/modifying_content_in_newly_delivered_notifications). 
 
You can leave the NSE implementation unchanged from the example code that is generated by Xcode. This solution does not require any changes to the structure of your notification payloads. With the NSE implemented, iOS will make a call to  ` application:didReceiveRemoteNotification:fetchCompletionHandler: ` immediately after a notification is received by your app. 
 
## Handling notifications and notification-related actions
 
If you want to customise how to present a received notification to a user when your app is running in the foreground, or you want to trigger some business logic when the user interacts with a notification, you need to implement some additional callback methods. 
 
 `UNUserNotificationCenterDelegate` is the interface for handling incoming notifications and notification-related actions: 
 
```swift
{iOSHandleNotificationActionsExample}
```
 
Please read the Apple documentation on  [ handling notification-related actions ](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/handling_notifications_and_notification-related_actions) for more information. 
 
# While your app is closed
 
Apple does not offer a way to handle a notification that arrives when your app is closed (i.e. when the user has fully quit the application or the OS had decided to kill it while it is in the background). If this happens, the only way to handle the notification is to wait until it is opened by the user. 
 
```swift
{iOSAppLaunchExample}
```
 
# Background updates
 
There are some additional considerations if you are publishing notifications that are designed to be processed in the background by your app (i.e. Notifications that are silent and not presented to the user directly). Their delivery will be throttled under certain circumstances, and iOS does not guarantee that all received background notifications are delivered to your apps. 
 
Please read the Apple documentation on  [ pushing background updates to your app ](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/setting_up_a_remote_notification_server/pushing_background_updates_to_your_app) for more information. 

